## AWS: Cloud Servers

### Review, Research, and Discussion

**Describe the Web-Request-Response-Cycle:**

As we start to build out web applications, it is important to be able to visualize the way information flows through the system; typically called the Request/Response Cycle.

First a user gives a client a URL, the client builds a request for information (or resources) to be generated by a server. When the server receives that request, it uses the information included in the request to build a response that contains the requested information. Once built, that response is sent back to the client in the requested format, to be rendered to the user.

It is our job as web developers to build out and maintain servers that can successfully build responses based on standardized requests that will be received. But, what does a standard request look like? We need to know that before we can start building servers that will respond successfully.

The standard, or protocol we use is HTTP.

**Explain what a “server” is, as it relates to the WRRC:**

The web is a cycle of requests and responses that flow between clients and servers.

**What does it mean to “deploy” an application?**

Software Deployment Meaning: Software deployment includes all of the steps, processes, and activities that are required to make a software system or update available to its intended users. Today, most IT organizations and software developers deploy software updates, patches and new applications with a combination of manual and automated processes. Some of the most common activities of software deployment include software release, installation, testing, deployment, and performance monitoring.

###   Terms

- Server: responds to client requests. This can be software or hardware. 

- Pub/Sub: "messaging pattern where senders of messages, called publishers, do not program the messages to be sent directly to specific receivers, called subscribers, but instead categorize published messages into classes and only receives message that are of interest, without knowledge of which publishers.

- WRRC: Web Request Response Cycle -> Client makes a request to the server and the server provides a response. 


### Preparation Materials

Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service that provides secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud. It is designed to make web-scale cloud computing easier for developers. Amazon EC2’s simple web service interface allows you to obtain and configure capacity with minimal friction. It provides you with complete control of your computing resources and lets you run on Amazon’s proven computing environment.

- Reliable, scalable, infrastructure on demand
Increase or decrease capacity within minutes, not hours or days
SLA commitment of 99.99% availability for each Amazon EC2 region. Each region consists of at least 3 availability zones
The AWS Region/AZ model has been recognized by Gartner as the recommended approach for running enterprise applications that require high availability.

AWS Elastic Beanstalk is an easy-to-use service for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java, .NET, PHP, Node.js, Python, Ruby, Go, and Docker on familiar servers such as Apache, Nginx, Passenger, and IIS.

You can simply upload your code and Elastic Beanstalk automatically handles the deployment, from capacity provisioning, load balancing, auto-scaling to application health monitoring. At the same time, you retain full control over the AWS resources powering your application and can access the underlying resources at any time.

There is no additional charge for Elastic Beanstalk - you pay only for the AWS resources needed to store and run your applications.

Benefits:
- Fast and simple to begin
- Developer productivity
- Impossible to outgrow
- Complete resource control

